INSTALL.md, before:

# Install Notes

The easiest way should be to use the docker
container as it is already described in the
[README.md](README.md#docker). This can be used for
testing also for production. However, there are alternatives ways to set
it up on Debian without docker and how you can set up a
an environment for code development.

* [Server configuration](#server-configuration)
  * [For Debian 7 (Apache 2.2)](#for-debian-7-apache-22)
  * [For Debian 8 (Apache 2.4)](#for-debian-8-apache-24)
  * [For Debian 9 (Apache 2.4 and PHP 7.0)](#for-debian-9-apache-24-and-php-70)
* [Initializing and Costumizing](#initializing-and-costumizing)
* [Configuration for code development](#configurations-for-code-development)
  * [Docker](#docker)
  * [Dev Server](#dev-server)
  * [Makefile](#makefile)

## Server configuration

### For Debian 7 (Apache 2.2)
You need the php library <a href="http://php.net/manual/en/book.yaz.php">yaz</a> on the server. For Debian 7 (Apache 2.2):

1. <code>apt-get install yaz libyaz4-dev php5-dev php-pear</code> (maybe you have already some packages)
2. <code>pecl install yaz</code>
3. Open `/etc/php5/apache2/php.ini`, goto section `Dynamic Extensions` and add `extension=yaz.so`

Maybe, the file `yaz.so` is not located in the directory
which is configured by `extension_dir` in
`/etc/alternatives/php-config` and you have to copy it therefore.
(e.g. <code>cp /usr/lib/php5/20090626/yaz.so /usr/lib/php5/20100525/yaz.so</code> in our case).

### For Debian 8 (Apache 2.4)
You need the php library <a href="http://php.net/manual/en/book.yaz.php">yaz</a> on the server. For Debian 8 (Apache 2.4):

* <code>apt-get install yaz libyaz4-dev php5-dev php-pear</code> (maybe you have already some packages)
* <code>pecl install yaz</code>
* create new file `/etc/php5/mods-available/yaz.ini` and add
```sh
; configuration for php YAZ module
; priority=20
extension=yaz.so
```
* create a symbolic link
```sh
cd /etc/php5/apache2/conf.d
ln -s ../../mods-available/yaz.ini 20-yaz.ini
```
* restart Apache2
```sh
service apache2 restart
```

### For Debian 9 (Apache 2.4 and PHP 7.0)
You need the php library <a href="http://php.net/manual/en/book.yaz.php">yaz</a> on the server.
For Debian 9 (Apache 2.4, PHP 7.0):

* <code>apt-get install yaz libyaz4-dev php-dev php-pear libapache2-mod-php</code> (maybe you already have some packages)
* <code>pecl install yaz</code>
* create new file `/etc/php/7.0/mods-available/yaz.ini` and add
```sh
; configuration for php YAZ module
; priority=20
extension=yaz.so
```
* enable the YAZ module
```sh
phpenmod yaz
```
* restart Apache2 server
```sh
systemctl restart apache2
```

## Initializing and Costumizing

Some steps have to be performed after the server configuration and
before the first start:

1. Clone the repository or download all files
2. Download [jQuery 3.2.1](https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.2.1.min.js) and [clipboard.js 1.7.1](https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/clipboard.js/1.7.1/clipboard.min.js) into `isbn` directory
3. Copy `isbn/conf.example.php` to`isbn/conf.php` and costumize the values
4. Copy `isbn/paketinfo.example.js` to `isbn/paketinfo.js` and costumize the values

Moroever, for the BNB data you have to run the script `getBNBData.sh`, which we
included as a cronjob, which runs every Saturday, at 10 am `(010**6)`.


## Configurations for code development

### Docker

The easiest way for developing/changing code on linux or windows is to use the same docker image
from Dockerhub and additionally mount the current malibu directory into docker:
```
docker run -d -p 12345:80 -v `pwd`:/var/www/html/malibu-dev ubma/malibu
```
The development version of malibu can then be accessed at [http://localhost:12345/malibu-dev/isbn/suche.html](http://localhost:12345/malibu-dev/isbn/suche.html)
(maybe you have to replace localhost with the docker ip).

### Dev Server

The `./dist/dev-server.sh` script will install the dependencies of malibu system-wide and start
a server on port `8090`. The purpose is to create a working development
environment on a Debian/Ubuntu system in a single step.

To run the dev server:

```
bash ./dist/dev-server.sh
```

### Makefile

To rebuild the image or run a container with the current development version:

```
make -C dist docker
make -C dist docker-run
```

Commit message:

updated INSTALL.md for Debian 10, added workaround in isbn/man-sru.php for increased OpenSSL security level in Debian 10

INSTALL.md, after:

# Install Notes

The easiest way should be to use the docker
container as it is already described in the
[README.md](README.md#docker). This can be used for
testing also for production. However, there are alternatives ways to set
it up on Debian without docker and how you can set up a
an environment for code development.

* [Server configuration](#server-configuration)
  * [For Debian 7 (Apache 2.2)](#for-debian-7-apache-22)
  * [For Debian 8 (Apache 2.4)](#for-debian-8-apache-24)
  * [For Debian 9 (Apache 2.4 and PHP 7.0)](#for-debian-9-apache-24-and-php-70)
* [Initializing and Costumizing](#initializing-and-costumizing)
* [Configuration for code development](#configurations-for-code-development)
  * [Docker](#docker)
  * [Dev Server](#dev-server)
  * [Makefile](#makefile)

## Server configuration

### For Debian 7 (Apache 2.2)
You need the php library <a href="http://php.net/manual/en/book.yaz.php">yaz</a> on the server.

1. <code>apt-get install yaz libyaz4-dev php5-dev php-pear</code> (maybe you have already some packages)
2. <code>pecl install yaz</code>
3. Open `/etc/php5/apache2/php.ini`, goto section `Dynamic Extensions` and add `extension=yaz.so`

Maybe, the file `yaz.so` is not located in the directory
which is configured by `extension_dir` in
`/etc/alternatives/php-config` and you have to copy it therefore.
(e.g. <code>cp /usr/lib/php5/20090626/yaz.so /usr/lib/php5/20100525/yaz.so</code> in our case).

### For Debian 8 (Apache 2.4)
You need the php library <a href="http://php.net/manual/en/book.yaz.php">yaz</a> on the server.

* <code>apt-get install yaz libyaz4-dev php5-dev php-pear</code> (maybe you have already some packages)
* <code>pecl install yaz</code>
* create new file `/etc/php5/mods-available/yaz.ini` and add
```sh
; configuration for php YAZ module
; priority=20
extension=yaz.so
```
* create a symbolic link
```sh
cd /etc/php5/apache2/conf.d
ln -s ../../mods-available/yaz.ini 20-yaz.ini
```
* restart Apache2
```sh
service apache2 restart
```

### For Debian 9 (Apache 2.4 and PHP 7.0)
You need the php library <a href="http://php.net/manual/en/book.yaz.php">yaz</a> on the server.

* <code>apt-get install yaz libyaz4-dev php-dev php-pear libapache2-mod-php</code> (maybe you already have some packages)
* <code>pecl install yaz</code>
* create new file `/etc/php/7.0/mods-available/yaz.ini` and add
```sh
; configuration for php YAZ module
; priority=20
extension=yaz.so
```
* enable the YAZ module
```sh
phpenmod yaz
```
* restart Apache2 server
```sh
systemctl restart apache2
```

### For Debian 10 (Apache 2.4 and PHP 7.3)
You need the php library <a href="http://php.net/manual/en/book.yaz.php">yaz</a> on the server.

* <code>apt-get install yaz libyaz-dev php-dev php-pear libapache2-mod-php</code> (maybe you already have some packages)
* <code>pecl install yaz</code>
* create new file `/etc/php/7.3/mods-available/yaz.ini` and add
```sh
; configuration for php YAZ module
; priority=20
extension=yaz.so
```
* enable the YAZ module
```sh
phpenmod yaz
```
* restart Apache2 server
```sh
systemctl restart apache2
```

## Initializing and Costumizing

Some steps have to be performed after the server configuration and
before the first start:

1. Clone the repository or download all files
2. Download [jQuery 3.2.1](https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.2.1.min.js) and [clipboard.js 1.7.1](https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/clipboard.js/1.7.1/clipboard.min.js) into `isbn` directory
3. Copy `isbn/conf.example.php` to`isbn/conf.php` and costumize the values
4. Copy `isbn/paketinfo.example.js` to `isbn/paketinfo.js` and costumize the values

Moroever, for the BNB data you have to run the script `getBNBData.sh`, which we
included as a cronjob, which runs every Saturday, at 10 am `(010**6)`.


## Configurations for code development

### Docker

The easiest way for developing/changing code on linux or windows is to use the same docker image
from Dockerhub and additionally mount the current malibu directory into docker:
```
docker run -d -p 12345:80 -v `pwd`:/var/www/html/malibu-dev ubma/malibu
```
The development version of malibu can then be accessed at [http://localhost:12345/malibu-dev/isbn/suche.html](http://localhost:12345/malibu-dev/isbn/suche.html)
(maybe you have to replace localhost with the docker ip).

### Dev Server

The `./dist/dev-server.sh` script will install the dependencies of malibu system-wide and start
a server on port `8090`. The purpose is to create a working development
environment on a Debian/Ubuntu system in a single step.

To run the dev server:

```
bash ./dist/dev-server.sh
```

### Makefile

To rebuild the image or run a container with the current development version:

```
make -C dist docker
make -C dist docker-run
```
